let's get more on this with Maran Bashar
Al jazer senior political analyst he
joins us from London thank you for your
time today Maran so Biden's comments
come to Jesus remark it appears to
indicate Biden's frustration with Israel
but what is slightly more confusing is
given the enormous leverage the US has
over Israel why the Israelis don't seem
to be listening unless the US are not
actually using that
leverage well yes absolutely I mean this
whole thing has becoming so comical if
it wasn't all so tragic in Gaza but
definitely the relationship between
Biden and
Netanyahu is so absurd the fact that the
American president that just committed
more
than4 billion dollar to Israel in
addition to some $40
billion in Aid to a country that is you
know rather doing well in German but
it's kind of squeezed now there is at
least so much economic and financial
leverage that Washington can use against
Israel or with Israel but it's not using
and then there's the arms America has
basically opened its
storage uh for ammunition to give to
Israel
83% of the bombs of the ammunition used
against the people in Gaza to commit
that gen side in Gaza are American bombs
and ammunitions at least according to
one American Congress woman so there's
so much leverage it is so easy for the
American president if he is really
serious about dictating to Netanyahu
what he must do at least on the
humanitarian front I have absolutely no
doubt that he can do that without the
song and dance without the
theatrics that that he's involved in
without all the politics and the and the
public relations Washington can and
should must use its leverage in order
for Israel to allow more humanitarian
Aid into Gaza and to stop the war well
linking to this whole Aid situation we
now have the US uh talking about these
attempts to get Aid to Gaza via some
sort of Maritime route it it's is
talking about building a port which
could take two months to
build many Aid groups have criticized
this as not being genuine what's your
take on
it well there is a consensus that it's
not genuine and despite that there are
some Hamas spokesperson who are
welcoming it you know Hamas being
pragmatic about the fact if anyone wants
to help you know let it be through sea
fine let it be through the sea but if
the Americans are really serious they
can use the same leverage in order to
erect a port in order to establish a
port by putting that same leverage on
the Egyptian government and the Israeli
government to allow Aid in from Egypt
and from Israel into Gaza it's it's not
rocket science there are hundreds of uh
lores already on the borders all full of
whatever is needed in Gaza but they just
not allowed in so really it makes the
question why go through 350 km in the
sea line from Cyprus when you can just
open the borders and allow the trucks in
and why continue to undermine Ona even
to wage a war on hona by Israel
supported by the United States when
horaa is
indispensable to get that Aid
distributed to the people in Gaza
because you see one thing is to get the
aid to the port or to the Border another
thing is to get it distributed
throughout Gaza to to the people who
need it most and for that we need honor
and hence honor must now be honored
supported
financed and totally protected by the
likes of the United States instead of
being sanctioned and undermined by
Washington and
a okay Maran Bashar good to get your
thoughts Al jazer senior political
analyst